Okay, we're talking with, could you give me a full name, Mr. Kegel, and initial, whatever?
William, middle initial is R. Kegel, C-A-G-L-E.
And your title is?
Lily Librarian.
Lily Librarian at Indiana University in Wilmington, Indiana.
And it's right, 6 October, 90.
And I was just telling Mr. Kegel that Dave Karpolis has in Santa Barbara, California, has the...
the Confederate States of America.
And then you said?
That we have the corrected proofs.
Small world is a good place to start.
Well, that's a good place to start.
I guess the Lilly Library, would you say that the core collection
began as a result of the beneficence of one collector, and did we take it from there?
Actually, it starts a little earlier than that.
It starts with the Special Collections Department in the university that was created in about 1940 with the acquisition of a major collection of Augustan period literature that is English literature of the period of late 1730, 18th century.
And from that, we acquired a number of other special collections that came to the university before Mr. Lilly's gift, including the big Lincoln collection, the War of 1812 collection, and other collections on English and American literature and culture.
Then in 1956, Mr. Lilly decided to give his collection of books to the university, and it was that major gift of great books.
That really started the impetus to build a separate library and to develop into what we have become today, a large research library in the humanities.
Mr. Lilly provided the high spots, and we've been filling in the material around them to turn what was really a collection of great books into a research library.
Can it be said that he directed the course?
Well, that's, yes, in a sense, but it's a most unusual sort of direction, because most collectors specialize in one particular field, and they focus as, let's say, William Andrews Clark in the Clark Library on two or three particular topics.
The Clements Library at the University of Michigan, the same thing.
There's an emphasis on American history up to a certain point.
American antiquarian society, the same.
The Folger, Shakespeare Library.
Each of these libraries and collectors
focused on one thing that they wanted to do and they built their collections around that.
Mr. Lilly was interested in the great books in all fields.
And if there was a list of 100 great books in science or in British literature or whatever it was, a grow your list of 100 important books in some subject, he wanted all of those books.
So instead of focusing on a particular subject and building that subject in depth, he collected great books across the board, any subject, any field.
So he brought to the library, or started us, with such a wide range of materials.
It could be great 19th century Russian novels, it could be English literature, it could be American history, it could be voyages and exploration, it could be music, it could be any subject that you could name.
So instead of focusing our attention on one particular subject, it gave us a mandate to fish in many waters, and we've been doing that ever since.
Did he leave money as well as... No, he did not.
It was a gift of books to the university, and the Lilly Endowment, which is the foundation that uses the excess capital of the Lilly Pharmaceutical Company, provided us with ongoing support from 1960 when the library was dedicated up until this year, 1989 actually, they provided annual contributions that were met by the university.
so that we would have money with which to acquire books.
Then in this year, actually October of 1989, the Lilly Endowment decided that instead of coming back to them each year for renewal, that they would give us a lump sum as an endowment, which they have now done, so that we have now an endowment that allows us to continue the purchase of books.
Is this anything like the J.C.
Brown Library in Providence, for instance,
which is affiliated certainly with Brown University.
It's part of the Brown family, but they don't get any money from the university.
No, our situation is totally different.
We are a branch library within the Indiana University library system, and I report directly to the dean of libraries.
All of our people are members of the Indiana University library faculty.
Our support staff, our physical facilities are all provided by the university.
So our
were just uh another library within the library system so if if there were a major acquisition that you wanted to make you'd have to run it through the state bureaucracy so to speak not at all no no acquisitions are entirely in my hands oh that's great so if i want to buy one book it costs one million dollars and i have one million dollars in the bank i can write you know to the book center and say send the book have you done that so not for a million dollars yeah i think uh we've come pretty close to that on some collections but but
it's a matter it's a very simple philosophy it's the philosophy of adding strength to strength you acquire collections where you can if there's a research collection that's been put together and it's offered to the university and we can afford it it'll fit into our budget and we feel that it will be useful within the university in terms of the teaching and research mission of the university then we purchase the collection but once you purchase the collection like that
then you have a commitment to continue developing that collection, to add new materials.
So to add strength to the strength to make it a greater research collection, which is what we do.
Everyone agrees that you are one of the great research libraries in the United States.
This has happened virtually within, what, the last 30 years of starting, basically, I would say.
We opened our doors in October of 1960, so yes, just 30 years.
What happened?
Was it concurrent with the Lilly gift?
that this attitude developed here, we're going to make ourselves a really great research institution?
Well, it goes back before that.
There are histories of Indiana University you can read, but the dominant figure in all of this is Herman Wells.
Herman?
Herman Wells was the president of the university from, what was it, 1935 to 1960, I guess.
And it was Dr. Wells who really had the vision of building a university that was not just the average state university, but making this a very special place.
He brought in very good people.
The music school developed during his time, the arts and the cultural aspects of the university.
They built the auditorium that we have here.
really developed a real interest in the arts and the humanities.
Also in the sciences, of course, I work in the chemistry department here.
It's very well known as well.
But I suppose right now the things that we point to with the greatest pride are institutions like the Indiana University School of Music, which is one of the finest in the world, and the Lowry Library.
You mentioned Dr. Wells' years, 35 to 60.
It's interesting.
Coincidental to that is about the same time
in the late 50s, early 60s, when you had Harry Ransom down at the University of Texas going off in a... That's right.
And the word you used is the word you run into all the time down in Texas, the vision, you know, the vision of Harry Ransom.
Do you think that there was kind of a competition between schools like Texas and Indiana?
Those would have been the two big ones, certainly.
Well, not really.
The...
The University of Texas and the HRC had substantially more funding than the Lilly Library has ever had.
At the height of Harry Ransom's activities, I think their acquisition budget for books or the money they were spending was something around $6 million a year.
At the same time, the Lilly Library had a budget of $250,000 a year.
since quadrupled.
Warren Lovitch said the most he ever had was $2 million a year.
Well, but that's probably from the Regents.
That may be, but that doesn't mean that they couldn't find money to buy some other sources.
At least this is why.
I mean, don't quote me on the University of Texas.
No, no.
But anyway, the point is that they had substantially more funding than Dave Randall had, who was our first librarian here.
$250,000, that was it?
We had $125,000 from the Lilly Endowment and $125,000 matching from the university between the years 1960 and 1970.
In 1970, they doubled it, each of them, so we were up to $500,000.
Now with our endowment of $5 million and a built-in increase that came as a part of that agreement with the Lilly Endowment,
Our funds, we have $300,000 from the university this year, and that will go up by $25,000 increments until we reach $500,000 in 1999, at which time, with our interest on the $5 million, we will have a budget of about $1 million.
We spend $600,000 or $700,000 a year right now.
So the acquisitions continue at pace.
Acquisitions continue at pace.
It's still a fairly small part of the Tobey University library budget.
which is now over $4 million, and they're pushing hard to move it up another million.
So we're still a smallish, specialized operation compared to a large university library.
But within what we do, within our funds available, we've been trying to build some good collections to bring people here to work in the university.
What would you say are they really
first-rate collections that really do attract the scholars?
The ones that are most frequently used are generally manuscript collections associated with particular individuals.
The most heavily used collections in the library here, I would say, are the Upton Sinclair collection.
All of his papers are here.
Some five tons of manuscripts.
Yeah, it came out in two big beacon band, moving bands, about four tons of printed material as well.
Purchased.
He wanted to give it to the Huntington Library, but Herbert Hoover said, I won't have the papers of that damned socialist in my library.
Is that right?
Dave Randall read that story in the newspaper, called up Mr. Sinclair, and rearranged to purchase the collection.
Other collections, though, in addition to that, let's see, among the literary people, papers, we have a lot of Escher Pound manuscript material here.
We have Sylvia Plath's papers.
Those are heavily used.
In the film area, Orson Welles' papers and John Ford's papers draw the scholars all the time.
They're very heavily used collections.
And these will all be purchased, right?
Oh, yes.
Collections of that sort tend to be purchased.
We have a lot of collections that have come to us as gifts as well.
Those tend to be more book collections.
We have a vast collection of American sheet music, 103,000 pieces of American sheet music.
roughly the end of the 18th century up through the 1960s.
Now, where did you get that?
It was given to us.
It was a collection formed by a dentist in New York whose name was Saul Starr.
It was purchased by Bernardo Mendel, who was a friend of the library here, and was given to the library.
Starr with two eyes?
Yeah.
So we have a collector who collected sheet music.
Collector who collected sheet music.
And when he died, his collection came up for sale, and Mr. Mendel bought it and presented it to the library.
But then in printed materials, the collections that get used, that fluctuates so much according to what certain academic modes there are.
Historical research today tends to be less based on research with early printed materials, with vast holdings on subjects like the American Revolution, the French Revolution, the
The British Civil War in the 1640s, over 5,000 printed pamphlets in the subject area, material of that sort that just doesn't see much use right now.
I don't know.
I suppose you should talk to Joel Silver, who's our head of public services.
He could tell you more about what collections in the printed area are being used.
It varies.
A lot of the ... We have different categories of readers who come to a library like this.
You know, I probably, among the most prominent, the visitors that come from abroad and from all around the country.
Nigel Nicholson is here, for example, right now working on his edition of the selected letters of his mother, Vita Sackville West, and his father, Harold Nicholson.
There's 10,000 letters that he has to go through, so he's here with us for a month doing that.
Then we have our own faculty, and then we have student-related or assigned classwork that is done here in the library.
So are undergraduates allowed to use them?
Yes, anybody's allowed to use it.
No restrictions on use.
That's different from a lot of rare book libraries.
The reason for that really is that we're not in a large metropolitan area.
If we were the Huntington Library in Los Angeles and had that sort of a population base to draw on, you would have to restrict it, as they do.
But the Huntington is not affiliated with the college or university.
But the HIC is, and it's very tough to get into the HIC.
They have restrictions.
Well, they've just chosen to do that.
We've chosen to go the opposite way and to encourage students to come in and use materials in the library.
Primary materials.
Why not?
Isn't that nice?
Sure.
If you're going to learn about the American Revolution instead of just reading a textbook, plunge in and read contemporary newspapers and documents and pamphlets and experience it firsthand.
Had Mr. Lilly left, in addition to the wonderful books,
but let's say a considerable sort of like in Chicago, who basically directed the way that collection was going to be built.
I think science books is what he said, and no dirty French novel.
You know, that's actually in the world.
I guess you think that the Lilly today would be a different kind of a research project?
No, Mr. Lilly had a very clearly stated philosophy.
As he told Dave Randall, I don't believe in the rule of the dead hand.
Was that in Randall's book, by the way?
I don't know if that's in the book, because the book covers Dave's years as a... In New York.
In New York, as a bookseller, rather than as a librarian here, although there is a chapter in there on Mr. Lilly and selling books to him.
Do it once more for me?
What did he say to Dave?
He said that he didn't believe in the rule of the dead hand.
So he wasn't going to give his books with restrictions.
There are no restrictions at all on how this library is to go or what we're to do with it.
So it's entirely up to the university.
Is it a very interesting will?
As I'm going along, there are some extraordinary wills I've encountered, you know, starting with Pepys' will.
I've never seen Mr. Lovey's will.
You know, like Newbery's will and Curran's will and...
Well, Mr. Lilly died with a will that had been written many, many years before he even began book collecting.
And because he had not left a good will, his estate wound up paying vast sum in taxes.
So his gold coin collection went to the Smithsonian, if you can imagine.
In those days, they allowed him...
whatever the legal $35 an ounce or something there was on gold, what it would be worth today.
It was a vast collection.
And anyway, we were not in his will.
Well, the books came prior to his... Oh, yes, they were a gift during his lifetime.
Oh, that's great.
True.
You probably wouldn't have gotten them then, had he died before... Oh, absolutely not.
No.
They probably wouldn't... They were not mentioned in the world.
Exactly.
Oh, so there is no will.
He gave these... See, I didn't know this.
They're not in any way... There's no... He simply wrote a letter to Herman Wells and said, it's my intention to give my collection of books to the university.
And he did it over a period of two years, and it was just a simple mistake.
Is there a chance I could get a copy of that letter?
Maybe you could arrange for somebody to send it to me.
I'll call it in next week.
I think if you bought the 25th anniversary book, it's quoted in there.
The letter is quoted in there?
Yeah.
Okay.
In full.
That's excellent.
It's in the historical introduction that Cecil Berg wrote.
My opening chapter really, it starts... It does give you the flexibility.
It gave you a great collection right off the bat.
You arrived full-blown with a great collection.
Is that a fair statement?
That's a fair statement.
We've added...
so many great collections to Mr. Lilly's collection, starting with the Poole collection that brought us our Gutenberg Bible and some other marvelous early printed books, the Mendel collection that brought us our wonderful resources on the Spanish colonial empire, followed by the Boxer collection that brought us Dutch and Portuguese voyage material and colonial materials, so that we have collection after collection after collection.
So the library, like any great library, is a collection of collections.
So many different individuals and their tastes have gone into forming those collections that then come together to build the great libraries.
And this is true whether you go to giant places like the British Museum and the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris, or whether you go to smaller but diverse libraries like this one.
It's a combination of tastes and interests of many, many different people.
You mentioned a Lincoln collection.
The Lincoln Collection was formed by a man named Oakeshott, who lived in Moline, Illinois, and it was acquired by the university, I think, in 1940, if I'm not mistaken.
But again, the historical material is all outlined in the book that you have.
But it's a book collection, or is it a manuscript?
It's a three books, but it included first printings of various speeches and other writings of Lincoln, but it also included
hundreds and hundreds of books about Lincoln, contemporary publications.
Let's go back, and again, not comparing it to Texas, because it's two different operations, but we're Dr. Wells and Harry Ransom kind of going at the same time.
In Texas, they made the decision that all the great stuff was gone, so to speak, of previous centuries, and that they would focus on the 20th century.
I gather that wasn't the thought.
It wasn't the thought, but you can go back to, was it Charles Dibdin or Thomas?
Thomas Farwell.
Dibdin, who complained in the 1830s that all of the great Greek manuscripts were already in libraries and that there would be nothing left for discerning collectors in the future.
While he's writing this, Dickens is writing pickwick papers.
Today, a perfect pickwick is a collector's dream.
So it's all relative.
No, we have never had the philosophy that we would concentrate only on one century.
In fact, we have many collections of earlier materials, the voyage material that I was mentioning to you before, the archives of the Archbishop of Quito, manuscript collections like the Thomas Parker papers, who was Lord Chancellor of the Exchequer in the reign of Queen Anne.
Manuscript materials from the 16th, 17th, 18th century are very welcome,
It's true that in this time they're less frequently met with than they were perhaps a hundred years ago.
And on the other hand, we're producing great quantities of writers and writers' papers and politicians and scientists and so on.
And we collect in those areas, too.
And we have archives of several publishing houses.
We have the papers of Herman Muller, who won the Nobel Prize for genetics and his work on...
Radiation, changes caused by radiation, drops of phylla, a type of fruit fly.
So, you know, there are just many different types of things available.
It becomes pretty much a matter of what you're fortunate enough to acquire.
We have a wonderful collection of early books on Scotland, for example, Scotland, up to the Act of Union in 1707.
Because a private collector had assembled this wonderful collection, we had the opportunity to purchase it, which we did.
so we we did not decide to concentrate as texas did and nor could we have afforded to compete with texas in buying the collections that they did we simply did not have uh funding on that scale uh papers of george bernard shaw and dh lawrence and things of the sort are pricey items so i was just going through the papers of silver up at the newbury yesterday and i did not know that story that's a wonderful story texas was all separate
give them $2.8 million, that's like in 1964.
And if you're familiar with that, then there was a very splashy story.
Chicago came up with some money, you know.
Yeah.
And so then they sued, but then Fleming sued the state of the... So it was a really, really great story.
But Texas County was able to come up with close to $3 million, just like that.
Sure.
You know, and what was great about this story is that they decided to sell duplicates.
to try and fund it.
They came out for three or four million dollars.
Then they had a big sale.
It was very interesting.
You do purchase a lot.
You do have a kind of a warrant list, I think.
You keep an active list of people that you're interested in.
Isn't that right?
We have several, actually.
French, English, and American literature.
Lists that are quite extensive and in the hands of a small number of booksellers because if you have everybody looking for the same book, it's chaotic.
And that could kind of affect the market in a way.
It could, indeed, yes.
But we do collect from lists.
We're developing new lists in new fields all the time.
We're surveying existing collections that we have and finding out what the key books are that we're missing and then developing lists of books that we need to support, let's say, English voyages and exploration or whatever.
So we just have to...
and to use that as one of the various methods by which we develop and strengthen our collections.
It's this basic thing of adding strength to the existing collections.
How do you find things?
I mean, how do you find new things?
Is it serendipitous to hear about things?
Are you out there actively looking for certain... Of course.
I would imagine this is your job.
This is basically what I do.
Give me an idea of...
Well, in the about three minutes that we have left, because I really must... Give me three minutes.
It's a matter of developing a network of personal contacts all over the world.
And you do this by traveling, by visiting booksellers, by private contacts that you make with collectors.
And I go to Europe...
either to the continent or to England every summer.
We usually make a quick trip to Italy and to Paris at Christmas time to visit booksellers, to see collectors, and to find out about things that are relatable.
And it's through this method means that we really come into contact with a number of collections, already assembled collections that have been offered to us through booksellers, largely.
but also the papers of different families, this type of material, the sort of thing that scholars come here to use in the library.
But it's being out in the field.
You don't get it just by reading catalogs.
You go out and you make friends, you discuss what the library's needs are with them, and so when an opportunity comes along for them to disperse or dispose of a collection to sell it en bloc or any bits, they remember what your interests are.
Any one acquisition that comes to mind that's given you the greatest satisfaction or great satisfaction?
Oh, gosh.
Not really.
There are many of the big collections that we've acquired that are really quite wonderful.
I think probably the greatest satisfaction, personal satisfaction, I've had in building the library here is what I've done not in acquiring collections but in
building up some of our contemporary materials, British, French, and American authors, principally.
When I came here in 1962 as the librarian for English in the university library, before I came over to the Lilly some four years later, I started the want-list business and decided that I would order not just a copy for the main library, but a second copy for Lilly.
Talked to Dave Randall about this.
That was fine.
We drew up a list of all these.
So that we had bought at publication price
new books by writers that we feel are significant.
And we've had them on standing order.
And as those books have been published, the booksellers have automatically sent us copies of the first edition and variant issues and so on.
So that we have extensive collections now of some 400 British and American writers, everything that they've published, limited editions, broadsides, whatever it is.
So that for 30 years now, 28 years, we've been doing this,
I continue this until I retire, whatever, however many years.
I will leave the library with a very strong collection of the materials that came out during the time that I was curator of the library.
This is great.
This alone is worth a trip, trust me.
This is good stuff.
You can always buy other people's collections.
That's the way libraries are always built.
But doing this, this is something that I just wanted to do myself.
And did you pick the authors?
I picked the authors initially, but then I sent the list around to people in the English department, and then I sent it around to booksellers, because booksellers frequently know more about these than English professors.
You read book catalogs, you see new names coming up, you add that person to a list, I'll spot somebody, read a couple reviews, see that this person's written four books and that they've all been well received, fire a note off to the person in London who handles our English list and say, put this person on the list.
or write to the books that are in New York because the Americans, add this person.
Or they'll write and suggest somebody to me.
So it's grown up by input from a lot of different people.
And you have a regular budget to cover this?
It comes out of our regular acquisition fund.
It's not that much money.
And it's about 400 authors?
British and American, about 400.
And it's all fiction and poetry.
Fiction, poetry, essays.
Yes, it's literature.
Literary figures.
And...
I think it's been very successful.
That's great.
It's rather like laying down a wine cellar for the next generation.
See, there's always something different.
That's wonderful.
You have to go.
This was a bonus for me, by the way.
Identify yourself.
Okay.
I'm Joel Silver and head of public services at the Lilly Library.
Just tell me where.
Just go ahead and talk and pick it up.
Okay.
Right now we're in the Lincoln Room.
If anyone wants to use the library, then they would stop at the reception desk and inform the receptionist that they will be using the reading room.
The reading room is open to anybody who wants to use it.
Do you have to apply for a card?
No, you need to present identification, but otherwise we're open to anybody.
You don't need to write in advance or make arrangements.
This is the staff entrance to the reading room.
And so on Saturdays, we're open from 9 to 1, and we usually get a few people working.
The books and manuscripts are used only in this room.
Now we're going to the treasure rooms.
Yeah, but actually the working area, it gets a little less elegant back here.
I don't know how much Mr. Cagle told you about the way the building is set up.
When you came into the building, you came in on the third floor of what is a seven-story building.
We're on three right now.
The third floor contains some reference books, some work areas for the cataloging department.
Here, part of our reference collection is here.
The rest is on the fourth floor.
Each of these areas back here contains cataloging
work areas, staff work space, and so forth.
What's the capacity of a building, you know, offhand?
It is very close to what we have.
This is water, by the way, right?
Is this the fire system?
Yeah, this is the fire system.
here, which runs all through the stacks, but there's no water in the pipes.
It's a dry pipe system, and the pipes only fill when the fire alarm sensors indicate that they should.
And one hopes that you get here prior to that.
Yes.
But the fire system in the vault is not water-based.
It's a halon gas system.
Oh, it is halon.
Yeah.
which will work down in the vaults, but won't work in areas, which is kind of falling out of favor now.
Yeah, because of the fluorocarbons.
Exactly, right.
I was at Jason Brown a couple weeks ago, and I guess they were just finishing their building.
So they said, we could have got the A-line in, and the grandfather didn't.
Yeah.
Pretty fancy wire type of thing.
Well, I get a security track.
Prevent the fire.
That's right.
Where are you from?
Massachusetts.
What part?
Worcester?
Oh, I'm from Baldwin.
Was that right?
How long have you been up here?
Oh, well, we moved to Los Angeles when I was eight, and I've been here since 81.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Now, what precisely do you do in the library?
I mean, your title is... As head of public services, and that includes all reference and reference activities for printed books, operation of the reading room, supervision of the stacks,
supervision of the exhibitions and publications program, a number of pretty busy men.
Yes.
We are now on the seventh floor.
The library classes its books in Library of Congress call number order, beginning with the A's, and the A's start up here on seven.
As you notice, all the lights on the stack floor are off unless somebody is working on that floor.
We start here on the A's, and wherever possible, we put books in boxes, protective cases, to protect them from light.
These are books in here.
Actually, what these are in here are the Haldim and Julius little big books.
So it starts here.
Since we're in the A's, we have encyclopedias and so forth.
So it's all alphabetic.
It's not classified according to subject matters.
Well, yeah, the Library of Congress classification is subject.
Okay, I'm sorry.
So, yeah, with the A's being encyclopedias in general series, down to the Z's being bibliography.
Okay, gotcha.
So, up here we have, I think, the A's and B's.
Right.
So, this is the seventh floor, which is right under the roof, and it's the smallest stack in the floor.
But you can see...
how the books are housed.
Materials are oversized.
We try whenever possible to shove them flat.
Good idea.
What are you doing with Boston Gazettes, I wonder?
These particularly are from the War of 1812, and we have a big War of 1812 collection.
I see.
There's the Bellefont, B-E-L-L-E-F-O-N-T-E, Patriot, which is Pennsylvania.
Boston Gazette.
Yeah.
The Columbian center.
You know, all centering around the period of the War of 1812.
Now, is this one individual's collection?
I don't know.
I think a lot of it was, but I don't know how specifically we built up the War of 1812 collection.
Interesting collection, though.
Yeah.
Well, we did an exhibition of that several years ago.
We're going to have to do six more, which is the largest of the stacked doors.
Is this for the real?
fancy dancy stuff is no not necessarily the real fancy stuff is in the vault but this is the uh books oh yeah these are all new accessions the from here now to the end are books that we've acquired in the last several years but can i take a look at some of those because i mr cable was mentioning that you do have a standard want list
and things just kind of come automatically.
Right, but a lot of those get cataloged as soon as they come in, so you can't tell from this what those are, because a lot of that is modern literature, and that's fairly quick to catalog, so a lot of it does get cataloged, but you're welcome to take a look at the kinds of things.
Okay.
Some of the things that are here are here because they're difficult to catalog, and the catalogers haven't selected these first.
But these would be considered rare books, per se?
Well, rare books would fit into one of our research collections that we have here.
Some of these books may duplicate what other campus libraries have, but here they'll be part of the research collection.
We collect, as I'm sure
Okay, they've told you in a wide variety of areas.
Yeah, that's just very interesting.
There's an Edna O'Brien book that was titled about five or six years ago, A Fanatic Heart.
She inscribed that to me.
My day job is I'm the book review editor at the Worcester Telegram.
And this book I'm doing, I'm writing for Random House.
This is fun.
I had a very, pardon me for being interested in
what some might think mundane things, but never is.
I'm very interested in recent acquisitions as well as, I mean, recently published acquisitions.
Okay, that's fine.
I just ordered a little one.
All right.
Let me show you what you saw with the things on this board.
A lot of the things on this board, because of the way the facilitation is called art and British and American history, and we're in the law area right now,
but this is all British history, and this is part of our sheet music collection.
Oh, I've heard about that, yeah.
More than 100,000 pieces of sheet music, and that's what all of these boxes... You have to switch off?
Yeah.
We have... This is all these shelves of sheet music?
Yeah, all of that.
One, two, three.
Three bookcases full of sheet books.
Oh, three, actually six.
You mean three ranges full... That's what you call them, ranges, right?
Yeah.
Three ranges, which is actually six.
Six sides, right?
Yeah.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, twelve.
That's a lot of sheet music.
Yeah, it is a lot of sheet music, mainly from the 19th and 20th centuries.
Okay.
And this collection is described in that really 20th anniversary.
Which I have, yeah.
Okay.
This is a conservation area.
We do conservation work on our collections here.
And we need a larger space, but we're working on that.
And if we ever do get an addition to the building, then there'll be plans for a much larger conservation area.
But we make, in this area, many of our folding protective cases.
This is the kind of work that we're doing now, for example, making bronzes.
like this.
And these are made mainly by part-time student workers.
That's great.
Those things are expensive.
Yeah.
And we also do paper repair, and we're starting to do some crop and leather.
How about the deacidifying?
Do you do that here?
Do you send that out?
Well, we don't do very much of it.
We just do a little.
We do some encapsulation.
But we just have not done a lot of these at a time.
But this gives you an idea of the way the books are housed.
We have these acid-free flags with the car numbers on them in each of the books.
And the stacks are arranged pretty well.
They're clean and orderly.
You visited other libraries.
How do they compare?
It's right in there, you know.
This is the third in two days.
You did the lily.
Reagan's up at Chicago, yeah, which is pretty enormous too, I have to say.
So this gives you an idea of how this vacuum is.
I've got about 20 institutions I'm including in the study on both coasts, HRC, it's going to be a good book, and 20 major and individuals, contemporary collectors.
Oh really?
Yes.
Who are some of them?
William Scheide.
Oh yeah.
Carter Burden, L.D.
Brodsky, Sanford Burdener out in Carmel, who has a great William Morris collection.
Chef Zathamari from Chicago.
Sam Rosenthal.
Ricky Jay, the magician.
I know Ricky Jay.
Say hello for me.
For you from when I used to live in Los Angeles.
I'm back on the tape now.
Okay, so this is all...
European literature, and then English literature begins right here and goes for the rest of this range, beginning with the early English literature.
This, for example, is a complete collection of Pondstock Press.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Where's the Chaucer?
In a vault.
And that's all from Mr. Louie's library.
Oh, you're from Mr. Louie's library.
Yeah, he had all of them.
Was Mr. Lilly a really dedicated collector?
Did he really know his stuff?
Yeah, he really... Because he seems to have collected a lot of different things, not just books.
No, yeah, he collected a large number of things, but he collected only what he was interested in, and he tried to get the best advice he could in each of the fields.
So this is more recent English literature here.
Yes, Naipola.
What's a Naipola?
Now, in a case like NYPD, do you have English, German, American, or actually the folies come out quite there?
Yeah.
I think mostly when we collect, our collecting policies may have varied over the years, but Bill would know more about that.
But I think if the way we're collecting presently, if the author is English, we're collecting English first.
Makes sense.
Follow the flag.
Yeah.
Where's the Fleming collection?
Yeah, Fleming.
Is that around?
Yeah.
No, these are the prints of things.
Are these his own books?
Yeah, the ones that are bound this way are his own copies.
OK.
Why don't you just take it out?
You've got his book plate in there.
No, they don't.
These were Fleming's own copies of his books.
Of his James Bond books.
That's right.
And so you can see that they have them specially bound.
For your eyes only.
Yeah.
That was a pretty nice one.
So we don't have a copy of the first edition of Casino Royale in dust jacket, but we do have Fleming's own copy, you know, specially bound for him with his note.
What is his note?
I can't ask.
This was written in January and February 1952, accepted by Capes in the spring and published a year later.
That's something in Fleming.
I love weather.
But you don't have the first with the dust jacket.
Is that something you'd buy if you saw it in the catalog?
At a reasonable price, probably it would.
But here's the first without the dust jacket.
His science books would be elsewhere, right?
Yes.
They're mainly down on the fourth floor.
I can show you those.
So you bought Bruce Chatwin.
I'm just trying to get a feel for some of the people you've decided are worth collecting.
I need a book now, I have a Y selection.
I do not know Bridget Goffey.
That's a contemporary writer?
Must be British, right?
Yeah.
E-L-I-G-I-D-G-L-O-P-H-Y.
So these are all British, basically?
Yeah, this floor is all British.
Oh, okay, okay.
Yeah, we'll be moving down to the Americas.
Okay.
John Le Carre, of course.
There must be on that one.
I'm just going to get a couple more names.
Anthony Price.
Christopher Priest, P-L-I-E-S-T.
That's a nice, interesting thing to do.
I think that's great.
It's to buy stuff.
A few cars over here.
That makes sense, doesn't it?
Let's see.
I've still got somebody working up here.
What's four?
Almost exclusively American literature.
Just a small portion of bibliography at the end.
This is 18th and 19th century American literature here.
The big American collections are here.
Here's much of our Clemens collection, the Mark Twain material.
Some of it is in the vault.
These are his books?
No, books written by... I was just going to say, because the bindings are... No, these are all boxes.
Oh, that's a box?
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
They look like bindings, don't they?
Yeah.
From here.
Uh-huh.
Oh, good.
So they are in their original bindings, then?
Yeah.
That's the point.
Oh, yeah.
Good.
Ken Kesey?
Uh-huh.
Yeah, here's some of the modern.
Okay.
This is interesting to me, actually.
Oh, Joe Heller, of course.
Do you get any of these inscribed, or do you get them signed, or do you just get the first trades?
No, some of them we have inscribed.
I don't know specifically what the Heller is.
John Gardner, the late John Gardner.
That's right.
William Gladys.
Don DeLillo is Libra, which was just published last year.
And so here's a whole shelf, and that's an interesting title, because that's
Not if it's written by DeLillo, Amazon, but it's not signed by DeLillo.
Nicholas Delbanco.
You've got the whole shelf on DeLillo.
James Dickey.
Evan S. Connell.
Don't mind me on this, this is very, very interesting to me.
I will have a, excuse me, Clark William Peter Blattie, that's interesting.
I don't know how much we have.
I wonder how many people would consider him a literary.
Do you have a Faulkner collection?
Oh, yeah.
Let me show you that.
Paul Brodeur, B-R-O-T-E-U-R.
Donald Baselman.
This is up in St.
Clair over here.
We have the archives of up in St.
Clair.
All right.
That was telling you about that rhythm.
Yeah, I just thought I could see some kind of material.
This is what, I guess, had been offered to the Huntington.
I'm looking for .
Okay.
Actually, we're looking for frostbite.
Howard Fast.
So you have the Library of America editions?
That's tough to get in a nice jacket like that, like collected stories.
It's fun to look at.
So you have the two, these must be the two variants.
One with the draft letter, the as I lay dying, and one with the regular letter.
Uh, look at the condition that I've taken.
Yeah, we're trying to buy books as Bill must have told you when he's finding a condition as well.
And that's the Red Osier Press edition of Father Abraham, which the New York Public Library found in its events.
Look at that.
The green bough hardly ever comes with a spine that crisp and clear.
Stand on my fly.
We're talking my stuff now, stuff I know, as a collector.
Okay.
Let's see, what time is it?
I want to make sure we get that.
I guess it's this.
Okay.
You have an author here, John A. Williams.
I don't really know him.
The Man Who Cried I Am, the Junior Bachelor of Society.
Then you have Wirt, W-I-I-T Williams.
Larry Woolworth, of course.
Donald Windham.
Well, he's a little older.
um see it is oh richard yates i love richard yates he was just here over the summer for a writer's workshop that'd be wonderful okay you've got to have ann tyler i can't believe you know it's just an alphabetical word there's jerry kaczynski blind date um
Philip Roth, of course.
Yeah, we're in the S's here.
Jerry Sewell.
I don't know Jerry Sewell.
That's very hard to buy for his book.
Do you have a whole shelf on, Tyler?
Well, it starts here.
Okay, you do have them all.
Good.
That's a very tough title for Clark Winder.
Good, good, good, good.
Okay, I'm happy now.
Let's go to the vault.
Okay.
Yeah, I mean, you can tell which ones they are.
They're in these kinds of cases.
These are Ian Fleming's sign.
This was a great collection, by the way.
Yes.
And I think Randall was very instrumental in bringing this to this hill, isn't it?
Yes, he was.
Randall together with Percy Muir.
Yeah, and Percy Muir.
Yeah, he had these special cases made.
I thought he had a book plate.
He didn't have a book plate, huh?
No, he had.
This.
That.
Okay, yeah.
I knew he had a design or something like that, a device.
Yeah.
Okay, that's good.
Let's move to the valve.
Look at that though.
That's a pretty old one.
Yeah.
It's called the script cellar.
This is the 90 scripts department.
Okay.
I did an interview with Bill this morning.
Yeah, and Bill asked me to show up as well.
Yeah, okay.
Oh, look at these big boxes, huh?
Yeah, this is the big stuff.
Now, we're down in the bowels of the building, right?
Right.
And here's the safe.
Okay, tell me a little bit around where we are.
Well, this is arranged the same way.
I'm going to put this tape on the other side.
Okay.